taken from: https://presidentofindia.nic.in/dr-apj-abdul-kalam/speeches

[SOURCE:Address at the 77th Annual Convocation of Osmania University, Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh : 01.02.2007]
[TYPE: Speech]
[TOPIC: Energy Independence and Planet Earths Environment]

"Knowledge makes you Great"

I am delighted to participate in the 77th Annual Convocation of Osmania University, Hyderabad. It gives me great pleasure to be here in this University which is meeting the educational needs of the Nalgonda, Mehaboob Nagar, Medak, Nizamabad, Ranga Reddy and Hyderabad districts of Andhra Pradesh. I am happy that the University is named after Osman Ali Khan, the 7th Nizam of Hyderabad, who patronized education, science and development in the State. I find that he has allocated 11% of his budget for education. During his time primary education was made compulsory and provided free to poor sections of society. I am sure compulsory and primary education will come into action throughout the country.

I congratulate all the students of Osmania University on their accomplishment of acquiring knowledge and resulting into degrees and certificates. I extend my greetings to the teachers who have worked very hard in shaping the young minds of this University. I also greet all the parents of graduating students. Today I would like to share with you a few thoughts on "Energy Independence and Planet Earth?s Environment". First let me discuss the importance of research in our universities.

Research - Teaching - Research

Any University is judged by the level and extent of the research work it accomplishes. This sets in a regenerative cycle of excellence. Experience of research leads to quality teaching and quality teaching imparted to the young, in turn enriches the research. Research brings transformation and development and also enhances the quality of education. Both research and teaching go together in good colleges and universities. I am happy that Osmania University is carrying out research in areas of science, technology, humanities, social sciences, language and the Indian culture. I am sure, the research results from these studies will definitely provide valuable inputs for structuring the education system needed for transforming our youth into enlightened citizens. Let us now see what are the purposes energy independence can serve.

Energy Independence born out of two purposes

I would be discussing two aspects in my presentation. How do we make our earth livable and free from CO2 bombardment and thereby reduce the damage to the ozone layer? Also how do we find an economic solution to energy production, which has several scientific challenges encompassing many scientific fields?.

The world energy forum has focused on what is going to be the status of fossil fuel based material like oil, gas and coal in the next fifty to hundred years. It is estimated by international forecasting that the available resource of fossil material will get exhausted within the next fifty to hundred years since these resources are non-renewable. And also friends, I would also like to share with you about the recent article in the ?New Scientist? which mentions about dumping of 30 billion tonnes of carbon-di-oxide into the atmosphere by all the nations every year. This dumping primarily arises due to the use of fossil fuels which directly affects the ozone layer which is existing between 25 kms to 30 kms above the earth?s surface. As you all know, Ozone layer regulates the sun radiation and cosmic radiation on earth. Earth is experiencing both stratospheric cooling (due to ozone hole) and tropospheric warming (due to increased green house gases). The question is, how do we protect our earth by protecting the atmosphere.

I would like to focus on how India can contribute in minimizing CO2 contamination in the atmosphere to save the Planet Earth. Let me now discuss the energy requirement and its structures in the coming two and a half decades which is applicable for one billion plus people of India and it will be relevant to the other five billion people of planet Earth.

Structure of Energy Sources for India

Based on the progress visualized for the nation during the next two decades, the power generating capacity has to increase to 400,000 MW by 2030 from the existing hundred and thirty thousand Megawatts in India. This takes into consideration of energy economies planned and the design and production of energy efficient equipments and systems. Energy independence has got to be achieved through three different sources namely Hydel capacity, nuclear power and non-conventional energy sources primarily through solar and wind energy, apart from the use of thermal power through clean coal technology.

In 2030, the Hydel capacity is expected to contribute 80,000 MW. Large scale solar energy farms of hundreds of megawatts capacity in certain number could contribute around 55,000 MW and wind energy can contribute 64,000 MW. The nuclear power plants should have a target of 50,000 MW of power. The balance 15,000 MW will be generated through use of solid bio mass and municipal waste. Now, let me discuss the scientific research and development challenges for realizing the mission of energy independence. First, I would like to talk about solar energy.

CNT based solar cells for higher efficiency

One of the important need for achieving energy independence by 2030 is to increase the power generated through renewable energy sources from the existing 5% to 25%. Particularly, the energy produced through solar energy has to increase substantially. The low efficiency of conventional photo voltaic cells has restricted the use of solar cells for large application for power generation. Research has shown that the Gallium Arsenide (GaAs) based PV cell with multi junction device could give maximum efficiency of only 30%. Hence it is essential to launch a research mission on Carbon Nano Tube (CNT) based PV cell which has got higher level of promise in efficiency.

The CNTs provide better electron ballistic transport property along its axis with high current density capacity on the surface of the solar cell without much loss. Higher electrical conductivity and mechanical strength of CNT could improve the quantum efficiency to the order of 35%. But, this is not sufficient. Recent research has shown that the alignment of the CNT with the polymer composites substrate is the key issue and this aligned CNT based PV cells would give very high efficiency in photovoltaic conversion. The polymer composites increase contact area for better charge transfer and energy conversion. In this process, the researchers could achieve the efficiency of about 50% at the laboratory scale. Our scientists have to take up this challenge and come up with the development of a CNT based PV cell with an efficiency of at least 50% within the next three years so that it can go into the commercial production within five years. In addition, they can also take up the development of organic solar cells, dye-sensitized solar cells and third generation solar cells. There are lots of opportunities for research in fundamental science in this area and I would like to see these opportunities are used by Osmania University. Now, I would discuss about bio-fuel research.

Bio-fuel oil production

The country is presently importing around 100 million tonnes of crude oil with a foreign exchange outflow of Rs. 1,50,000 Cr. per annum (nearly US $ 34 billion). By 2030 with the present growth rate we may have to import 300 million tonnes. To reduce the import content, apart from locating the embedded oil resources in the country, we have to work on producing Ethanol and bio-diesel in a cost effective manner which can be blended to the extent of 30% to 40% with petrol and diesel. Simultaneously, we have to work on development of other energy sources like hydrogen which is totally pollution free.

Our study indicates that we have to realize production of 60 million tonnes of bio-diesel and 60 million tonnes of Ethanol per annum by 2030. Particularly for bio-diesel we have to get this production from 20 million hectares which is one third of the quantum of present waste land available in the country, where Jatropha can be planted. We have to achieve it through research for improving the productivity of Jatropha plant seeds, mastering the extraction and esterification technology and finding remunerative bi-products, which is a challenge for life science scientists. Our aim should be to evolve a drought resistant Jatropha seed which will provide minimum 3 kgs of seed per plant annually commencing from third year of plantation and minimum 40% oil content. Similar effort is required in ethanol plantation and production also. I consider, this is definitely an important challenge for the agriculture scientists, gene experts, plant breeders and biotechnologists of Osmania University. Osmania scientists must also collaborate with combustion experts and produce the most fuel efficient engines that can run with 100% bio-diesel or ethanol produced from Jatropha plantation or sugarcane. Let us discuss nuclear fuel research.

Nuclear Energy

So far, the present nuclear power capacity of 16 reactors which is 3900 MW is expected to go to 7400 MW by 2010 with the completion of nine reactors which are now in progress. Eventually as per present plan of BARC and Nuclear Power Corporation the capacity by 2020 is expected to be increased to 24,000 MW. There is a need to plan right from now to increase this capacity to 50,000 MW by 2030.

Nuclear power generation has been given a thrust by the use of uranium based fuel. However to meet the increased needs of nuclear power generation, it is essential to pursue the development of nuclear power using Thorium, reserves of which are higher in the country. Technology development has to be accelerated for Thorium based reactors. Thorium is a non fissile material. For conversion of Thorium and maximizing its utilization development of Fast Breeder Reactor has been rightly taken up. Now, let me discuss about efficient hydrogen fuel.

Efficient Hydrogen Fuel

During my visit to Iceland, I had a unique experience, which I would like to share with you. Friends, the President of Iceland and myself with our teams were traveling in a hydrogen fuelled bus. The bus also took us to a Hydrogen Fuel station and we filled up Hydrogen gas in the fuel tank and we continued our journey and discussions. I am aware that, hydrogen operated motorcycles, three wheelers and small generators have been developed in the country. In addition, Polymer Electrolyte Membrane Fuel Cell (PEMFC) and Phosphoric Acid Fuel Cell (PAFC) technologies and fuel cell ? battery hybrid van have been developed. Hydrogen production from distillery waste and other renewable methods have also been developed. Hydrogen storage in metal hydrides has also been demonstrated. We have also to work on liquid hydrogen production plants. At present, research is in progress to further improve the performance and technology of these vehicles and generators. Particularly the Fuel cell powered automobiles will become a reality in the world. I would urge the researchers of Osmania University to concentrate on the areas such as high pressure storage of hydrogen, liquid storage, storage in nano-structure, development of safety codes and standards and development of dedicated engine for hydrogen fuel. Finally, I would like to mention about wind energy research.

Wind Energy Research

It is essential that in an area of wind energy research, we need to earmark sufficient efforts and resources for research for potential windy areas, optimal plant design, cost effectiveness and progressive improvements. For realizing, generating capacity of 64,000 MW of electrical power from wind energy, we have to take the following actions:

A. The present potential of wind energy in India has been worked out to be 45,000 MW. Studies must be launched to explore other potential sources such as off-shore wind farms, especially, since India has over 7000 km long coastlines. It may also be necessary to apply advanced techniques in wind velocity measurement and relating it to available electrical out put.

B. Work towards standardization of the wind turbine power plants to realise the cost reduction due to economies in the scale. Also research and development is required for reducing the investment per MW through improved designs and application of newer technologies.

C. I understand that the generation cost at presently is between Rs.2.5 to Rs.3.5 per unit depending upon the site. Research is required to bring down this cost to Rs.1.00 to Rs.2.00 per unit based on improved designs and maintenance free systems.

D. Feasibility studies may be conducted by wind energy researchers to determine economic sizes of wind energy plants which can be used for lifting water from 30 meter level and serve the needs of farmer having small holdings in a region with an average wind speed of 8 to 10 km per hour.

Now, I would like to talk about the research required for reducing the impact of coal based power plants on atmosphere.

Minimizing the impact of coal based plants on environment

To minimize the impact of coal based plants on environment in the country we have to use super critical technologies with higher steam parameters for improved plant efficiency and circulating fluidized bed combustion for use of inferior coal. The newer technology option such as integrated coal gasification combined cycle and solar integrated combined cycle should be completed fast and implemented in our power plant. There is a need to implement these technologies at the earliest so that we can get better coal, higher efficiency of the plant, reduced transportation load and minimum impact on the environment. Now, I would like to present few thoughts on convergence of technology which is the emerging area of the future.

Convergence of Technologies

The information technology and communication technology have already converged leading to Information and Communication Technology (ICT). Information Technology combined with bio-technology has led to bio-informatics. Now, Nano-technology is knocking at our doors. It is the field of the future that will replace microelectronics and many fields with tremendous application potential in the areas of medicine, electronics and material science. When Nano technology and ICT meet, integrated silicon electronics, photonics are born and it can be said that material convergence will happen. With material convergence and biotechnology linked, a new science called Intelligent Bioscience will be born which would lead to a disease free, happy and more intelligent human habitat with longevity and high human capabilities. Convergence of bio-nano-info technologies can lead to the development of nano robots. Now, I would like to discuss the Global Human Resource Cadre which is essential for transforming India into a knowledge society. Universities have an important role in creating and nurturing this cadre.

Global Human Resources Cadre

Presently our university education system is contributing 3 million graduates and post graduates every year and the students seeking employment after completion of 10th class and 10+2 class are around 7 million per year. Thus nearly 10 million youth are injected into the employment market every year. In the 21st century, India needs large number of talented youth with higher education for the task of knowledge acquisition, knowledge imparting, knowledge creation and knowledge sharing. At present India has five hundred and forty million youth under the age of 25. This will continuously be growing till the year 2050. Keeping this resource in mind, the Universities and educational systems should create two cadres of personnel: (1) a global cadre of skilled youth with specific knowledge of special skills (2) another global cadre of youth with higher education. These two cadres will be required not only for powering the manufacturing and services sector of India but also will be needed for fulfilling the human resource requirements of various countries. For realizing this, the universities and secondary school education system will have to work towards increasing the through put of the higher education system from the existing 11% to 20% by the year 2015, 30% by the year 2020 and 50% by the year 2040. The other Indians who are not covered by the higher education system should all have world class skill sets in areas such as construction, carpentry, electrical systems, repair of mechanical systems, fashion design, para-legal, para-medical, accountancy, sales and marketing, software and hardware maintenance and service, software quality assurance to name a few. No Indian youth should be without either a world class higher education or without world class skill sets. Osmania University has an important role to play in creating and nurturing the global human resource cadre in Andhra Pradesh.

Conclusion: Value of Excellence

Recently I was reading the two volumes of the book titled ?The Big and the Small? from the Microcosm to the Macrocosm written by Dr. G. Venkataraman. In this latest book, author establishes fascinating link between particle physics and cosmology in two volumes. Since I am in the midst of students and academic community, I thought of sharing with you an incident narrated in the book about Sir CV Raman. Raman was in the first batch of Bharat Ratna Award winners. The award ceremony was to take place in the last week of January, soon after the Republic Day celebrations of 1954. The then President Dr. Rajendra Prasad wrote to Raman inviting him to be the personal guest in the Rashtrapati Bhavan, when Raman came to Delhi for the award ceremony. He wrote a polite letter, regretting his inability to go. Raman had a noble reason for his inability to attend the investiture ceremony. He explained to the President that he was guiding a Ph.D. student and that thesis was positively due by the last day of January. The student was valiantly trying to wrap it all up and Raman felt, he had to be by the side of the research student, see that the thesis was finished, sign the thesis as the guide and then have it submitted. Here was a scientist who gave up the pomp of a glittering ceremony associated with the highest honour, because he felt that his duty required him to be by the side of the student. It is this character that truly builds academic excellence. I am sure the academic community assembled here will follow this example.

Once again let me congratulate all the graduating students of Osmania University for their excellent academic performance. My best wishes for success to all the members of Osmania family in their mission of promoting value based education to the youth of Andhra Pradesh.

May God bless you.