taken from: https://presidentofindia.nic.in/dr-apj-abdul-kalam/speeches

[SOURCE:Address to the Indian Army Contingent Proceeding to Sudan and Congo, New Delhi 05.02.2007]
[TYPE: Speech]
[TOPIC: Great Peace Mission]


"Courage to combat the problems and Succeed,

is the unique quality of our soldiers"

General J.J. Singh, Chief of the Army Staff, brave soldiers and officers of Indian Army and distinguished guests.

My greetings to all of you. I thought of addressing you since you are being deployed in an important UN mission. While serving on such international missions, all of you are the representatives of our country and the impressions left by you on the international community will reflect the image of our nation.

Role Model for Courageous Diplomacy

When I think of UN missions, I recall Gen. Thimayya?s experience in finding solution in difficult situations that were ridden with ideological differences and political variance and distrust in all aspects of life in Cyprus when he was posted as the head of the UN forces in 1964. Cyprus at that point in time had been torn by the bitter conflict between the Greeks and Turkish Cypriots. General Thimayya?s courageous diplomacy became an example for forces all over the world, and the Turkish Foreign Minister paid a tribute by describing Gen. Thimayya?s role as ?a superhuman effort to keep peace going?. The Greeks adored his grit, pragmatism and sense of justice as well as his intellect. The Cyprus Government has paid homage to the great General by issuing postal stamps and naming a road after Gen. Thimayya. It is indeed a great tribute to India?s Peace Keeping Mission under the leadership of General Thimayya and his team. That indeed is a great tradition set.

Dr. D.S. Kotnis in China

Next scene I remember is about the work of Dr. D.S. Kotnis, an Indian doctor who had worked as the Director of Dr. Bethune International Peace Hospital in Shec-Zia Zhong in China. Dr. Kotnis along with four other doctors were sent as the Indian Medical Mission Team in 1938 for providing medical cover to the people affected by Japanese invasion of China. All except Dr. Kotnis returned to India safely. Dr. Kotnis stayed in China for five years working in mobile clinics to treat wounded soldiers. Dr. Kotnis joined the 8-route army and worked 72 hours at a stretch for treating the war casualties. During his mission, Dr. Kotnis was a lecturer at the Dr. Bethune Hygiene School and the President of Dr. Bethune International Peace Hospital along with the Canadian Dr. Norman Bethune; Dr. Kotnis continues to be remembered by the Chinese people even today they cherish his memory. I am sure all of you assembled here can appreciate the message given by these two great Indians on how soldiers should work in foreign assignments.

Most of you are going to Sudan and Congo where the operating conditions are different and demand extreme professionalism, commitment and dedication. The rich experience you had in your career so far and the guidance provided to you by the senior officers will stand in good stead and enable you to perform your mission successfully as has been done by your predecessors during many volatile crisis situations. You must realize that due to India?s unblemished record as a dedicated and committed member of UN towards world peace, India finds a unique place in world community. I am sure the services rendered by you will further enhance the image of our country in the international arena.

Conclusion

You are in a beautiful mission, mission of bringing peace in societies. I can assure you that your contribution to the UN Peace Keeping Mission is in the minds of every Indian; we cherish your valour, your commitment and devotion to duty to this important task. I am sure you will march from strength to strength through your teamwork to attain greater glory for the nation, your units and yourselves. I also convey my greetings to your family members who have been supporting you as you carry out your national missions.

I extend my best wishes to you and your families for success in all your missions.  
Now, I will administer a six point oath. Are you ready? Will you repeat with me?

May God bless you.