taken from: https://presidentofindia.nic.in/dr-apj-abdul-kalam/speeches
[SOURCE:Address at the Presentation of Gandhi Peace Prize 2005, Rashtrapati Bhavan, New Delhi : 31.01.2007]
[TYPE: Speech]
[TOPIC: Power of Forgiveness]


"Courage to overcome the

Sufferings and to succeed,

is indeed the trait of the brave"

I am indeed delighted to participate in this great occasion of presentation of the Gandhi Peace Prize 2005 to Most Reverend Archbishop Desmond Mpilo Tutu in recognition of his invaluable contribution towards social and political transformation in South Africa and by this action contributing to World Peace.

Dear Reverend Archbishop Desmond Tutu, when I read your statement, I sensed courage of conviction and purpose in your life?s mission. You said, ?I want the government to know now and always, I do not fear them. They (White Government) are trying to defend the utterly indefensible and their faith. They will fail because they are ranging themselves on the side of evil and injustice against the Church of God. Like others who have done that in the past, the Neros, the Hitlers and the Amins of the world, they will end up as the flotsam and jetsam of history?.

Today, we are indeed happy to be in the company of Nobel laureate and a friend of the people Rev Archbishop Desmond Tutu, during this important occasion of the presentation of Gandhi Peace Prize for the year 2005.. After participating in the intensive fight against the prevalence of apartheid system for decades, Archbishop Desmond Tutu has been forging equality in South Africa through dialogue and tolerance as envisioned by Mahatma Gandhi.

Origin of Satyagraha

While participating in this function, I am reminded of the famous train journey of Mahatma Gandhi and the treatment meted out to him at Pietermartizburg. During my visit to South Africa I boarded a simulated train at Penrich Railway Station near Durban for a journey to Pietermartizburg, just tracing the footsteps of Mahatma Gandhi. It was from Durban station that Mahatma embarked on the fateful journey that in later years is regarded as having changed the course of his life. He boarded the train on 7th June, 1893 in order to travel to Pretoria, where he was due to meet legal clients. A first class seat was booked for him. The train reached Pietermaritzburg station at about 9 p.m. A white passenger entering the compartment could not stomach a coloured person traveling with him. So he went out and returned with two officials who ordered Gandhiji to move to the van compartment. Later, a white constable was called who took Gandhiji by hand and pushed him out of the train. His luggage was also taken out and the train continued its journey without him. Gandhiji spent the night in the waiting room. It was winter and the weather was bitterly cold. And although his overcoat was in the luggage, Gandhiji did not ask for it fearing further insults. Gandhiji contemplated returning to India but decided that such a course would be cowardice. He vowed to stay and fight the disease of racial prejudice. This changed the course of his life. Gandhiji even said: "my active non-violence movement began from that date (7th June, 1893). The path of ahimsa is great innovation of the human mind and it was a very powerful non-violent tool that was instrumental in achieving our country?s freedom.

Fight against apartheid

In 1978, Bishop Tutu became the first Black General Secretary of the South African Council of Churches. This position provided a national platform to Bishop Tutu for denouncing the apartheid system as "evil and unchristian." Tutu called for equal rights for all South Africans and a system of common education. He demanded the repeal of the oppressive passport laws, and an end to forced relocation. Tutu encouraged nonviolent resistance to the apartheid regime, and advocated an economic boycott of the country. The government revoked his passport to prevent him from traveling and speaking abroad, but his case soon drew the attention of the world. In the face of an international public outcry, the government was forced to restore his passport. Later, in 1994 after South Africa?s first multi-racial election President Nelson Mandela suggested Arch Bishop Tutu to chair the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, investigating the human rights violations of the previous 34 years. In this appointment the Archbishop Desmond Tutu counseled forgiveness and co-operation instead of revenge for past injustice. It is indeed a beautiful message for all the political system of planet Earth ?Forgive and go on development of the Nation?.

Dear friends, a big lesson that we learnt from Archbishop Desmond Tutu is beautifully captured in one of the Thirukkurals written 2200 years before by the Poet Saint Thiruvalluvar:

Which means, for those who do ill to you, the best punishment is to return good to them that will transform their minds for positive thoughts.

Conclusion: Inspiration

I am sure that the life, work and action of Archbishop Desmond Tutu will remain an inspiration not only for the people of Africa but also people of other nations who are fighting for their genuine rights. Your favorite theme at the dawn of the 21st century ?God has a dream? is indeed beautiful. I consider it as a privilege to honour Rev. Archbishop Desmond Tutu with the Gandhi Peace Prize for the year 2005.

May God bless you.